There is a bsthemepreview function that, like, given that you don't already have a Shiny
application that you want to preview a theme for, you can give bsthemepreview, like, if
I had this, if I already had in mind, like, a theme that I wanted to use and didn't want
to do the work of actually, like, programming a Shiny app example, I can just save this
theme here and use this bs, bstheme, preview, give it a theme. And it will apply that theme
to this demo, like, Shiny demo app that kind of tries its best to stuff all of, like, the
core Shiny UI stuff that we support into this example app. So, you can see, like, how
those styles would end up affecting, like, slider input and selectize input and date
input, as well as things like, you know, verbatim text output and, like, all of the sort of
Shiny widgets that you may or may not be already used to. And then it also, at the
same time, overlays this interactive widget that I can drag around and use to make tweaks
to the actual theme settings. So, I can change from, like, a something closer to a black
to something closer to, like, an ice blue theme. So, it's got the two main background
and foreground colors. It's also got the ability to use a boot swatch theme, if you want to.
Just be aware, like, if you use a boot swatch theme, don't expect, like, the custom theming
options to always work super great with it. So, just want to set expectations there that,
like, just because of the way that boot swatch is currently set up, they haven't, like, implemented
those themes well enough in mind to, like, allow you to tweak them in ways that work
as well as just using the default bootstrap theme. So, just be aware of that. So, you can
change the main, like, background foreground, as well as, you know, I could have a different
primary color here. That will change, like, tab set panel, things like check boxes and radio
buttons, slider inputs. Also, you know, we try our best to kind of use those, like, main
semantics of bootstrap and propagate them throughout all of the widgets that we provide in Shiny.
So, yeah, the main, like, color and boot swatch settings, as well as fonts. And again,
this has integration with Google Fonts, where I could choose any Sans Serif font that I wanted.
Let's choose something like, I'm not sure how to pronounce this one, but I do like it, Montserrat.
So, I could change from Pront to Montserrat.
Oh, and actually, that might be a bug, that it seems to have gone back to my original theme
settings. But now, you can see, like, at the top here and on the tab set panels, it's kind of
slightly different looking font here. It also has thematic enabled, so that we can look at how
the theme would actually be propagated to our plots defaults settings, as well. So, I could,
again, change to, like, a blue color here, and that will just automatically kind of propagate
to the R plot. Same thing with, like, DT tables. DT also has some nice integration with BS Lib,
where it derives its sort of accent colors and main colors and fonts, as well. All those styles
from the BS Lib theme. And then, you know, these are just some other things that we provide in
Shiny UI, like modals and progress bars, notifications. And then, like, the difference
between, you know, how the heading fonts would look versus code and base font.
And then, some other kind of more low-level options for more advanced theming. So,
if you can see my R console here, various output that has been essentially echoed as I've made
changes to the theming application. And it should do a good job of keeping track of just the
changes that you've made interactively. So, like, this captures the fact that I've changed to a,
you know, more of a blue background and foreground color, as well as the Montserrat
font setting. And it's not quite smart enough to know, like, that it should actually integrate
this stuff with the input theme that you've given it. So, you will have to essentially, like, copy
this code here. And it does make the assumption that your theme is named theme. But thankfully,
I've actually used the name theme. So, I can just say BS theme update this theme with these new
settings. And now, you know, if I feed this in to input, again, on the BS theme preview,
it will use the Montserrat settings. The BS theme preview is really nice if you're, like,
again, you don't already have a Shiny app that you're using and you want to, like, get a feel for
what colors and fonts you might want to use in your future Shiny app. But if you already have
an existing Shiny app, you can leverage that same interactive theming widget. So, if I already have
this
nav bar page here, I can first let me actually
do more of a traditional looking setup. And here's the server function
which has the input and output arguments as well as session.
And then BS lib has a function called BS themer that you can call inside of your
server function. And then it will overlay
that same interactive themer on this particular Shiny app.
So, now I could go in and do the same thing to my basic nav bar page.
And still get the same experience of, like, the code being output to replicate the changes.
And you don't necessarily, like, you just need to call this once. You don't need to worry about,
like, calling this in a reactive context or anything like that.
Like, if you want to do this, just go to the top of your server function
and call this function once. And then it will just
overlay that. And you can also collapse it if you don't actually really want to use it.
And you want to, like, do some other stuff with your Shiny app, you can collapse it and kind of
get it out of your way if you don't want it anymore. And, yeah, not only can you do this
with Shiny, but you can also do this with your R Markdown documents. But there is it's a little
bit more tricky to figure out how to do that. In the sense that it requires two different things.
It requires you to add a runtime Shiny to your R Markdown document. Because, really,
we can't get the full features of this interactive theming widget working without
a Shiny runtime. And then, as well, sort of, like, in your setup chunk,
you want to call this BSThemer. Sort of like how you call the BSThemer in the server function.
You want to do the same thing in code that's going to run in a server context.
In code that's going to run in a server context. Which I can't remember if that's
well, actually, that did looks like that worked. So, we got this original
example that we were working from. And now this interactive themer. So, if I wanted to,
like, have a look at one of these prepackaged themes, say, Minty.
I can see how that will look on my R Markdown document.
Unfortunately, thematic won't work if you're statically rendering these plots. So, it doesn't
know that, like, by default, it won't know to, like, rerender itself when your theme has changed.
But you can make that work, as well, if you, instead, dynamically render this through a
render plot. Which now we can do, because we have the runtime Shiny, like, we can render
have the ability to render our plots dynamically. So, if I let's just make sure this works by
stopping and running again. All right. So, it's recognized the default theme.
But now if I change to Minty, it will know to rerender itself with those new CSS settings,
essentially.